# Source Beach C++ Foundation

===============================================================================

    Copyright 1996-2017 (c) Alkaline Games LLC

    This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
    License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
    file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

===============================================================================

Beach is a group of C++ packages that are 100% platform independent,
implementing many useful object-oriented design patterns and general
purpose mechanisms that provide the fundamental building blocks for
applications and higher level packages.

------
source
------

The C++ source code depends only on ISO Standard C++ and its standard
libraries. The source code may contain conditional compilation
preprocessor directives in a few places, but only for coping with
specific compiler idosyncracies where necessary, not to distinguish
operating systems. The source code should be compatible with any ISO
Standard C++ compiler, however, the GCC (GNU Compiler Collection) C++
is the preferred and intended tool set.

Much of the source code has been documented with Doxygen markup. HTML
files can be generated by running 'doxygen' at the project directory.

Unit test coverage is far and few between. We hope to increase this
greatly over time along with complete Doxygen coverage.

The Beach project is the foundation of a larger code base for a project
of epic proportions that has evolved over many years. During that time,
new naming and style conventions were adopted, but not all of the code
has yet been rennovated to these newer standards. Rennovation has
mostly only been done when existing code needed to be changed for
functional purposes. With this code being released to the public,
we hope to make the code base more consistent and eliminate
redundancies.

--------
building
--------

Only the C++ source code is platform independent, not the build system.
The accompaning build system scripts and configuration (make) files
are designed for GNU make (gmake). The Beach build system is quite
minimal at this time, lacking auto-configure, auto-make, and dependency
generation. The build system currently supports and runs on the
following platforms:

    - gcc 4.2.1 on FreeBSD for amd64 or i386 
    - gcc 4.2.1 on (Mac) OS X Lion 10.7.5 for x86_64
    - gcc 4.4.5 on GNU/Linux for x86_64 or x86
    - gcc 4.5.0 on MinGW for Win32

Other versions of GCC are yet unverified and thus may or may not be
supported.

Building and using the libraries does not rely on any other project
beyond the C++ toolset.

Building the unit tests relies on the CppUnit project which has
been included in the dep/cppunit subdirectory. You must first
build CppUnit for your platform by running the 'shbuild' script in
dep/cppunit. 

Ocean is the pseudo-project name of the collection of open source
projects that Beach and Coast depend on.

--------------
subdirectories
--------------

build/  build support (make include files)
dep/    project dependencies (a.k.a. Ocean)

dox/    generated Doxygen documentation
out/    generated libraries and intermediate files
run/    generated executable targets (unit tests)

src/    C++ source, by package
test/   C++ unit test source, by package

----------
packages
----------

The Beach C++ Foundation forms the most fundamental layer of a
multilayer architecture for building portable applications in C++.
These packages provide rudimentary objects that are domain (subject
matter) and platform independent. The design and implementation of
every piece of code is purely object-oriented, not just C++ wrappers
around a functional/structural design. Many widely used design patterns
are implemented with names and structure that is consistent with the
published pattern literature. Many of the design pattern
implementations have significant enhancements from years of practical
application. The following is a list of the current packages, their
purpose, and some of the design pattern implementations they include:

1.  Atoms: fundamental typedefs and simple objects.

2.  Chain: linked-list based object association
        patterns: Encapsulated Context, Extension Object

3.  Collection: enhanced, reference-based STL containers.
        patterns: Iterator

4.  Expression: regular expression parsing.
        (currently forked from the public domain SPLASH code).

5.  Geometry: geometric constructs and calculations.

6.  Invocation: dynamic method invocation.
        patterns: Command

7.  Lifecycle: object life-cycle mechanisms.
        patterns: Counted Pointer, Diagnostic Logger, Handle/Body,
                    Identity Field, Name, Object Registry

8.  Notification: inter-object communication.
        patterns: Forwarder/Receiver, Observer

9.  Serialization: mechanisms for externalizing object state.
        patterns: Serializer

10. Taxonomy: type-semantics, a.k.a. meta level support.
        patterns: Dynamic Object Model, Property List, Reflection,
                    Type Object

----------------------

The packages are layered with the following dependencies:

```
  taxonomy
    |              
    \--> serialization
    |      |       
    \----- \--> notification
    |      |      |
    \----- \----- \--> lifecycle
    |      |      |      |   
    \----- \----- \----- \--> invocation
    |      |      |      |      |
    |      |      |      |      |    geometry
    |      |      |      |      |      |  
    |      \----- | ---- \----- \----- \--> expression
    |      |      |      |      |      |      |       
    \----- \----- \----- \----- \------------ | --> collection
    |      |      |      |      |      |      |       |
    \----- \----- \----- \----- | ---- | ---- | ----- | --> chain
    |      |      |      |      |      |      |       |       |
    \----- \----- \----- \----- \----- \----- \------ \------ \---> atoms
```

===============================================================================
(end of document)
